right now, President Biden is
delivering remarks at the US Capitol.
So we're going to listen in.
Thank you.
Thank you. Sir, please.
Thank you to Isaiah
chapter ten introduction
for your leadership
in the United States
Holocaust Memorial Museum.
There are two scholar statesmen
and, a dear friend,
Speaker Johnson,
Peter Jeffries, members of Congress,
and especially the survivors
of the Holocaust.
My mother here, she look at you.
God love you all.
God's love you all
a Foxman and all other survivors
who embody absolute courage
and dignity and grace are here as well.
During these sacred days of remembrance,
we grieve.
We give voice to the 6 million Jews
who were systematically targeted,
murdered by the Nazis
and their collaborators
during World War Two.
We honor the memory of victims,
the pain of survivors,
the bravery of heroes
who stood up to Hitler's
unspeakable evil. And we recommit
to heading
and heeding the lessons
at one of the darkest chapters
in human history
to revitalize and realize
the responsibility of never again,
never again, simply translated from me,
means never forget, never forget.
Never forgetting means
we must keep telling the story,
must keep teaching the truth,
must keep teaching our children
and our grandchildren.
The truth is, we are at
risk of people not knowing the truth.
That's why growing up,
my dad
taught me and my siblings
about the horrors of the Shoah.
At our family dinner table.
That's why I visited Yad Vashem
with my family
as a senator,
as vice president, and as president.
And that's why
I took my grandchildren to Dachau
so they could see and bear witness
to the perils of indifference,
the complicity of silence
in the face of evil that
they knew was happening.
Germany, 1933
Hitler and his Nazi Party rise to power
by rekindling one of the world's oldest
forms of prejudice and hate,
anti-Semitism.
His role didn't begin with mass murder.
It started slowly across economic,
political, social and cultural life.
Propaganda demonizing Jews,
boycotts of Jewish businesses,
synagogues to face with swastikas,
harassment of Jews in the street
and schools,
anti-Semitic demonstrations,
pogroms, organized riots
with the indifference of the world,
Hitler knew
he could expand his reign of terror
by eliminating Jews from Germany
to annihilate Jews across
Europe through genocide.
The Nazis call the Final Solution
concentration camps,
gas chambers, mass shootings.
By the time the war ended,
6 million Jews,
one out of every three Jews
in the entire world, were murdered.
This Asian hatred of Jews
didn't begin with.
The Holocaust
didn't end with the Holocaust, either.
Or after.
Even after our victory in World War two,
this hatred
continues to lie deep in the hearts
of too many people in the world
and requires
our continued vigilance
and outspokenness.
That hatred was brought to life
on October 7th.
In 2023,
on a sacred Jewish holiday.
The terrorist group Hamas
unleashed the deadliest
day of the Jewish people
since the Holocaust, driven
by ancient
desire to wipe out the Jewish people
off the face of the earth.
Over 1200 innocent people
babies, parents, grandparents
slaughtered in a kibbutz,
massacred at a music festival,
brutally raped,
mutilated and sexually assaulted
thousands more
carrying wounds.
Borrowed some shrapnel
from the memory of that
terrible day they endured.
Hundreds taken hostage,
including survivors of the Shoah.
Now
here we are,
not 75 years later,
but just seven and a half months later,
and people are already forgetting.
They're already forgetting
that Hamas unleashed this terror.
That was Hamas, a brutalized Israelis.
It was Hamas
who took and continues to hold hostages.
I have not forgotten, nor have you.
And we will not forget.
As Jews around the world
still cope with the atrocity
and trauma of that day and its aftermath,
we've seen a ferocious surge
of antisemitism in America
and around the world,
vicious propaganda
on social media.
Jews
forced to keep their hide,
their keepers under baseball
hats, tuck
their Jewish stars into their shirts.
On college campuses, Jewish students
blocked, harassed, attacked
while walking to class.
Antisemitism,
anti-Semitic posters, slogans
calling for the annihilation of Israel,
the world's only Jewish state.
Too many people
denying, downplaying
rash lies and ignoring
the horrors of the Holocaust.
And October 7th,
including Hamas's appalling use
of sexual violence to torture
and terrorize Jews.
It's absolutely despicable,
and it must stop
silence.
Silencing the vile can hide much,
but it can erase nothing.
Some adjusted is so heinous,
so graphic, so grievous.
They cannot be married, buried
no matter how hard people try.
In my view,
a major lesson of Holocaust is,
as mentioned earlier, it's
not always not inevitable.
We know hate never goes away.
It only hides,
given a little oxygen
and comes off one of the rocks.
We also know it stops hate
one thing all of us.
Later, Rabbi Jonathan Sacks
described antisemitism as a virus
that survived and mutated over time.
Together, we cannot
continue to let that happen.
We have to remember
our basic principles as a nation.
We have an obligation obligation.
We have an obligation
to learn the lessons of history.
So we don't surrender our future
to the horrors of the past.
We must give hate no safe harbor
against anyone, anyone.
From the very founding, our very founding
Jewish Americans.
Representative. Only about 2% of the U.S.
population have helped lead cause
of freedom for everyone in our nation.
From that experience,
we know scapegoating and demonizing
any minority
is a threat to every minority.
And the very foundation of our democracy.
So moments like this,
I have to put these principles
and we're talking about into action.
I understand
people have
strong beliefs
and deep convictions about the world
in America.
I respect and protect
the fundamental right to free speech.
To debate, disagree.
To protest
peacefully and make our voices heard.
I understand that's America.
But there is no place on any campus
in America, or any place in America
for anti-Semitism
or hate speech
or threats of violence of any kind.
Whether against Jews or anyone else,
violent attacks, destroying property.
It's not peaceful protest.
It's against the law.
And we are not a lawless country.
We're a civil society.
We oppose the rule of law.
And no one should have
to hide to be brave.
Just to be themselves.
The Jewish community
didn't want you to know.
I see your fear.
You're hurting your pain.
Let me reassure you.
As you're president, you're not alone.
You belong.
You always have, and you always will.
And my commitment
to the safety of the Jewish people,
the security of Israel
and its right to exist as an independent
Jewish state is ironclad,
even when we disagree.
My administration is
working around the clock
to free remaining hostages,
just as we have freed hostages already.
And we will not rest
until we bring them all home.
My administration,
with our second generals
leadership, has launched
our nation's
first national strategy
to counter antisemitism.
That's mobilizing the full force
of the federal government
to protect Jewish community.
But what we know
is not to work for government alone
or Jews alone.
That's why I'm calling on all Americans
to stand united against antisemitism
and hate in all its forms.
My dear friend,
who became a friend of the late
Ellie Whitesell, said, quote,
one person of integrity
can make a difference.
We have to remember that
now more than ever
here in Emancipation Hall, the U.S.
Capitol.
Among the towering statue to history
is a bronze bust of role Walmart.
Born in Sweden as a Lutheran.
He was a businessman, a diplomat,
all stationed in Hungary
during World War Two.
He used diplomatic cover
to hide and rescue
about 100,000 Jews
over a six month period.
Among them was a 16 year old Jewish boy
who escaped a Nazi labor camp.
After the war ended.
A boy received a scholarship
from the Hallel Foundation
to study in America.
He came to New York City penniless,
but determined to turn his pain
into purpose.
Along with his wife,
also a Holocaust survivor,
he became a renowned
economist and foreign policy thinker,
eventually making his way
to this very capital
on the staff of a first term senator.
That Jewish refugee was Tom Lantos,
and that Senator was made.
Tom and his wife Annette
and their family became dear
friends to me and my family.
Tom would go on to become
the only Holocaust survivor
ever elected to Congress,
for became a leading voice
on civil
rights and human rights around the world.
Tom never met Raul,
who was taken prisoner by the Soviets.
Never to be heard from again,
but through Tom's efforts,
rolls Busters here in the Capitol.
He was also given honorary U.S.
citizenship, only the second person ever,
after Winston Churchill.
The Holocaust Museum here in Washington
is located in a rural road
in Ralls, named
the story of the power
of a single person.
To put aside our differences,
to see our common humanity,
to stand up to hate,
and its ancient story
of resilience from immense pain
and persecution.
To find hope,
purpose and meaning in life.
We try to live and
share with one another.
That story endures.
Let me close with this.
I know these days when members
fall on difficult times.
We all do well to remember.
These days also fall during the month.
We celebrate Jewish American heritage,
a heritage that stretches
from our earliest days
to enrich
every single part of American life.
Today,
great Americans, great Jewish American
and Tom Lantos used the phrase
the veneer of civilization is paper thin.
We are its guardians,
and we can never rest.
My fellow Americans, we must.
We must be those guardians.
We must never rest.
Must rise against hate,
meet across the divide,
share our common humanity
and God
bless the victims and survivors of Shoah
and the resilient hearts.
A courageous spirit
and eternal flame of faith
of the Jewish
people forever
shine their light on America
and around the world.
Pray God, thank you all.